Fire Breathing Penguins
Chris Fowles, Dan Barton, Jonathan Dolan
Architecture
	Our math-baseball game is going to be implemented in Java, with a Swing GUI interface. It is going to be a desktop application, which will connect to a database server. The server will store all of the student/teacher accounts, questions answered, and questions attempted per level. The desktop application will have both the student and teacher interfaces.
	There will be two parts to the desktop application. The backend will do all of the logic for the game, such as generating questions, determining if the answers are correct or not, connecting with the database server, etc. It will not store anything permanently, but will store all of the data generated on the database server. When the application starts up, it will connect to the database server, and then ask the user for their username/password, and then query the database to see if it is a correct login, and then will only write the scores and other data to the database. The GUI will be implemented in Swing, a Java GUI framework, and will communicate with a backend on the same device to show questions, login, etc. The GUI will have a student section and a teacher section. The student section will have the main menu, which has options to play ball, manage team, and view history. The teacher section will show a list of student names, along with a button for adding a student. If a teacher clicks on a student's name, it will bring them to a page where they can modify the username/password, and see the scores and statistics generated by that specific student.
	The database server will supply records to the desktop application and will record each student's score for each level, questions attempted, team color, etc. Its backend will communicate with the backend of each dekstop application.
	Version control will be done through GitHub. All code and documentation will go into a GitHub repository, with each member of the group being a collaborator on that repository.
