Chris Fowles --- Daniel Barton --- Jonathan Dolan

Project Concept – Math Game – Fire Breathing Penguins

  As a means of teaching math skills to first and second grade children, we are developing 

a math based baseball game. The game will test, and help teach, students on their math abilities 

by making the learning activity fun and engaging. For correct answers, dependent on the 

difficulty of that question, the student will be given a base hit (single through homeruns). They 

will continue to ‘bat’ until they choose to leave the game. The runs they have scored as a 

culmination of their correct answers will be readily available to the students so they can track 

their progress and attempt to get a high score. In addition to this simple measure of success, 

other more telling variables of success will be measured for the teacher to access. To do this each 

student will login with a username and password, and their results will be kept tied to their 

account. 

  To make the game age appropriate it will be less about the rules of baseball and more 

about editing a couple of features of the team, name and color for example, and batting to score 

runs by answering the math questions. This will keep the students engaged without discouraging 

them by making it too complex or competitive. The software not only tests the students on their 

knowledge but also provides feedback to help initiate future learning. Incorrect answers result in 

a splash page where the correct answer is shown along with keywords such as sum, or addition. 

The use of baseball as a backdrop is meant for entertainment and idea retention but the main 

focus of the software is teaching math concepts.

  The primary users of this software will be first and second grade students in need of 

improved math skills. Since these users only have basic computer skills all of the applications 

controls will be achieved by readily marked mouse clicks, or required easy to enter text. When 

entering answers to the questions asked by the game the student’s will be required to either click 

the correct answer out of a set of possibilities, or will be required to enter the correct answer in a 

data field. To keep a typically low focus group engaged the program will have the entertaining 

aspects of baseball, including player names and team colors, along with bright colors and 

interactive noises. Examples of this would be the noise of the crack of a bat after the child has 

gotten an answer correct.

  The secondary users of the software will be the teachers, who will require extra 

information in regards to student progression. For these users there will be some added 

complexity in the form of drop down boxes, and student look ups, but they will also have added 

variable information on each of their students. Some examples of these variables are; runs 

scored, percent of question type correct, and overall percentage of answers correct. 

The software will be opened and setup by the teachers, so upon startup the user will have 

the option of entering teacher or student mode. In teacher mode the instructor can login and 

access all of the student data through a drop down menu. In student mode, the child will login

with their information (which will likely be kept by the teacher). They are then taken to a main 

menu where they can choose to edit their information, play a new game, or view game history.
